.. highlight:: Matlab

.. _sec-examples-localisation-details:

Localisation - looking at the results in detail
===============================================

As seen in the :ref:`previous example <sec-examples-localisation>` localisation
is performed inside the blackboard by :ref:`different localisation knowledge
sources <sec-blackboard-localisation>`. In this example we will perform a single
localisation of a anechoic white noise signal coming from 0째. The example
can be found in the ``examples/localisation_look_at_details`` folder which
consists of the following files::

    Blackboard.xml
    localise.m
    SceneDescription.xml

For details on ``Blackboard.xml`` and ``SceneDescription.xml`` have a look at
our :ref:`previous example <sec-examples-localisation>`. Here, we will focus on
the details after we performed the localisation. So, first run::

    >> bbs = localise;

in Matlab. This runs the blackboard and does the localisation, but does not
print any results, it only returns the blackboard as ``bbs``.
The blackboard itself stores lots of data in itself, see
:ref:`sec-blackboard-memory` for details. First we ask the blackboard to return
the localisation data::

    >> perceivedLocations = bbs.blackboard.getData('perceivedLocations')

    perceivedLocations =

    1x7 struct array with fields:

        sndTmIdx
        data

It returns a relatively complicated struct that comes with time stamps
``sndTmIdx`` and the corresponding ``data`` which again is a struct containing
different things, here is the output for one time stamp::

    ans =

      PerceivedLocation with properties:

      location: 238
      headOrientation: 122
      relativeLocation: 0
      score: 0.5530

But don't worry there is an easy way to get an overview of the results. First,
we are only interested in the summary of the localisation result::

    >> sourceAzimuth = 0; % the actual source position
    >> [loc, locError] = evaluateLocalisationResults(perceivedLocations, sourceAzimuth)

    loc =

         0


    locError =

         0

As you can see the source was localised at 0째 meaning that the localisation
error is also 0째. After that we would like to have a more detailed view on what
happend during the localisation::

    >> displayLocalisationResults(perceivedLocations, sourceAzimuth)

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Reference target angle:   0 degrees
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Localised source angle:
    BlockTime  PerceivedLocation    (head orient., relative loc.)   Probability
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    0.09        0 degrees           (  0 degrees,      0 degrees)   0.57
    0.65        0 degrees           (181 degrees,    179 degrees)   0.98
    1.21        0 degrees           (181 degrees,    179 degrees)   0.56
    2.32        0 degrees           (  0 degrees,      0 degrees)   0.96
    2.88        0 degrees           (  0 degrees,      0 degrees)   0.48
    3.44        0 degrees           (122 degrees,    238 degrees)   0.81
    3.99        0 degrees           (122 degrees,    238 degrees)   0.55
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Mean localisation error: 0
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Here, we see that the head was turned twice during the localisation and that the perceived
location was always at 0째, but the model has not have always the same confidence
that the source was really located there, which you can see by the
``Probability`` values. In the cases when they were to low they triggered a head
movement in order to see if the values would be higher for another head
position.

So far, we looked at all the details going on in the blackboard. In order to
localise the blackboard uses different cues - like :abbr:`ITD (interaural time
difference)`\ s and :abbr:`ILD (interaural level difference)`\ s - that are
provided by the :ref:`sec-afe`. It might be of interest to have a detailed look
on them. In order to see which are available, run::

    >> bbs.listAfeData

    Available AFE data:

        'itd'
        'input'
        'ic'
        'ild'
        'innerhaircell'
        'gammatone'
        'time'
        'crosscorrelation'
        'head_rotation'

All those cues can be plotted with ``bbs.plotAfeData(cueName)``, for example::

    >> bbs.plotAfeData('time');

.. _fig-examples-afe-time:

.. figure:: img/afe-time.png
    :align: center

    Left and right ear signals.

::

    >> bbs.plotAfeData('ild');

.. _fig-examples-afe-ild:

.. figure:: img/afe-ild.png
    :align: center

    :abbr:`ILD (interaural level difference)`\ s between the two ear signals
    over time.

The next one is not really a cue provided by the :ref:`sec-afe`, but is it good
to know in which position the head was pointing at what time::

    >> bbs.plotAfeData('head_rotation');

.. _fig-examples-afe-head-rotation:

.. figure:: img/afe-head-rotation.png
    :align: center

    Head rotations of the model during localisation.

.. vim: filetype=rst spell:
