.. highlight:: Matlab

.. _sec-examples-localisation:

Localisation with and without head rotations
============================================

The |TwoEarsModel| comes with several knowledge sources that work together to
estimate the perceived azimuth of a sound source, see
:ref:`sec-blackboard-localisation` for a summary. The main work is done by the
``LocationKS`` knowledge source that uses |ITD| and |ILD| cues provided by the
:ref:`sec-afe` and compares them with learned cues to azimuth maps. As an output
it provides a probability distribution of possible directions for the source.
This will be passed on to the ``ConfusionKS`` knowledge source which looks at
the probabilities and decides if a clear direction can be extracted from this.
If not, ``ConfusionSolvingKS`` is called which then triggers ``RotationKS`` to
rotate the head of the listener (could be in the simulation or of a robot) and
start the localisation process again.

In this example we will see how to set up the model to perform a localisation
task and how to switch on or off the possibility of the model to rotate its
head. This example can be found in the
``examples/localisation_w_and_wo_head_movements`` folder which consists of the
following files::

    BlackboardNoHeadRotation.xml
    Blackboard.xml
    localise.m
    SceneDescription.xml

The first file we look at is ``SceneDescription.xml``, it defines the actual
acoustic scene in which our virtual head and the sound source will be placed in
order to simulate binaural signals. It looks like this:

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
    <scene
      BlockSize="4096"
      SampleRate="44100"
      MaximumDelay="0.0"
      NumberOfThreads="1"
      LengthOfSimulation = "5"
      HRIRs="impulse_responses/scut_kemar_anechoic/SCUT_KEMAR_anechoic_1m.sofa">
      <source Radius="1.0"
              Mute="false"
              Type="point"
              Name="SoundSource">
        <buffer ChannelMapping="1"
            Type="noise"/>
      </source>
      <sink Name="Head"
            Position="0 0 0"
            UnitX="1 0 0"
            UnitZ="0 0 1"/>
    </scene>

Here, we define basic things like the sampling rate, the length of the stimulus,
the used |HRTF|, the source material, the
listener position, and the distance between listener and source. For more
documentation on specifying an acoustic scene, see
:ref:`sec-xml-scene-description`.

.. note::

    We don't specify the exact source azimuth here, as we will choose different
    azimuth values later on and set them on the fly from within Matlab.

The next thing we have to do is to specify of what components or model should
consists and what it should actually do. This is done by selecting appropriate
modules for the :ref:`sec-blackboard` stage of the model. This can be configured
again in a xml file. First we look at the configuration for localisation
including head movements (:file:`Blackboard.xml`):

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
    <blackboardsystem>

        <dataConnection Type="AuditoryFrontEndKS"/>

        <KS Name="loc" Type="LocationKS">
            <Param Type="char">default</Param>
        </KS>
        <KS Name="conf" Type="ConfusionKS"/>
        <KS Name="confSolv" Type="ConfusionSolvingKS"/>
        <KS Name="rot" Type="RotationKS">
            <Param Type="ref">robotConnect</Param>
        </KS>

        <Connection Mode="replaceOld" Event="AgendaEmpty">
            <source>scheduler</source>
            <sink>dataConnect</sink>
        </Connection>
        <Connection Mode="replaceOld">
            <source>dataConnect</source>
            <sink>loc</sink>
        </Connection>
        <Connection Mode="add">
            <source>loc</source>
            <sink>conf</sink>
        </Connection>
        <Connection Mode="replaceOld" Event="ConfusedLocations">
            <source>conf</source>
            <sink>rot</sink>
        </Connection>
        <Connection Mode="add" Event="ConfusedLocations">
            <source>conf</source>
            <sink>confSolv</sink>
        </Connection>

    </blackboardsystem>

Here, we use different knowledge sources that work together in order to solve
the localisation task. We have ``AuditoryFrontEndKS`` for extract auditory cues
from the ear signals, ``LocationKS``, ``ConfusionKS``, ``ConfusionSolvingKS``,
and ``RotationKS`` for the actual localisation task. The ``Param`` tags are
parameters we can pass to the knowledge sources. After setting up which
knowledge sources we will use, we connect them with the ``Connection`` tags.
For more information on configuring the blackboard see
:ref:`sec-blackboard-configure`.

In a second configuration file we setting up the same blackboard, but now
disabling its ability to turn the head (:file:`BlackboardNoHeadRotation.xml`):

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
    <blackboardsystem>

        <dataConnection Type="AuditoryFrontEndKS"/>

        <KS Name="loc" Type="LocationKS">
            <Param Type="char">default</Param>
        </KS>
        <KS Name="conf" Type="ConfusionKS">
            <!-- Disable confusion solving (== no head rotation) -->
            <Param Type="int">0</Param>
        </KS>

        <Connection Mode="replaceOld" Event="AgendaEmpty">
            <source>scheduler</source>
            <sink>dataConnect</sink>
        </Connection>
        <Connection Mode="replaceOld">
            <source>dataConnect</source>
            <sink>loc</sink>
        </Connection>
        <Connection Mode="add">
            <source>loc</source>
            <sink>conf</sink>
        </Connection>
    </blackboardsystem>

Now, everything is prepared and we can start Matlab in order to perform the
localisation. You can just start it and run the following command to see it in
action, afterwards we will have a look at what happened::

    >> localise

    ------------------------------------------------------------------
    Source direction        Model w head rot.       Model wo head rot.
    ------------------------------------------------------------------
       0                        1                     176
      33                       34                      33
      76                       75                      72
    -121                     -119                    -111
    ------------------------------------------------------------------

As you can see the model with head rotation returned better results as the model
without head rotation enabled. The reason why we have problems without head
rotations is that we have trained the model with another |HRTF| data set
(:ref:`QU KEMAR <sec-hrtf-qu-kemar>`) as we used for the creation of the
acoustic scene (:ref:`SCUT KEMAR <sec-hrtf-scut-kemar>`).

Now, we have a look into the details of the ``localise()`` function. We will
only talk about the parts that are responsible for the task, not for printing
out the results onto the screen. First we define the source angles we are going
to synthesise and start the :ref:`sec-binsim`::

    % Different angles the sound source is placed at
    sourceAngles = [0 33 76 239];

    % === Initialise binaural simulator
    sim = simulator.SimulatorConvexRoom('SceneDescription.xml');
    sim.Verbose = false;
    sim.Init = true;

After that we have a loop over the different source angles in which we are
setting the source position in the :ref:`sec-binsim` and run two different
blackboards after each other, one with, the other one without head rotations::

    for direction = sourceAngles

        sim.Sources{1}.set('Azimuth', direction);
        sim.rotateHead(0, 'absolute');
        sim.ReInit = true;

        % LocationKS with head rotation for confusion solving
        bbs = BlackboardSystem(0);
        bbs.setRobotConnect(sim);
        bbs.buildFromXml('Blackboard.xml');
        bbs.run();

        % Reset binaural simulation
        sim.rotateHead(0, 'absolute');
        sim.ReInit = true;

        % LocationKS without head rotation and confusion solving
        bbs = BlackboardSystem(0);
        bbs.setRobotConnect(sim);
        bbs.buildFromXml('BlackboardNoHeadRotation.xml');
        bbs.run();

    end

.. vim: filetype=rst spell:
