.. highlight:: matlab

.. _sec-tutorial-acoustic-scene:

Set up an acoustic scene
========================

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    binaural-renderer
    brs-renderer

Contemporary auditory models generally work in a feed-forward manner:
pre-recorded or pre-generated signals are simply fed into the model and the
model calculates and returns the results.

The |TwoEarsModel| behaves quite different in that respect - our framework
allows to actively explore the provided acoustic scene: the model's feedback
mechanisms could, for instance, initiate a turn of the audio capture unit (dummy
head) in order to disambiguate complex input and to arrive at a more precise
scenario analysis.  Such active exploration can be achieved, on the one hand, in
the real world by using a dummy head in order to record binaural ear signals on
the fly. Those dummy head should have a moveable head and will be mounted on a
robotic platform to allow for translatory movements. For an introduction to
that, see :ref:`sec-tutorial-robot`.  On the other hand, this task can be
addressed in a virtual way, setting up a simulated acoustic scene in the
|BinSim|.  Below, we focus on the latter method.

There are two ways how the |BinSim| creates the ear signals. One is to specify
the entire acoustic scene using meta-data, pass appropriate |HRTF|\ s to the
simulator, and, with that, render the scenario using the simulator's
:ref:`sec-binaural-renderer` component. The other way is to use a mixture of
meta-data and pre-recorded scene details that could be represented by |BRIR| or
|BRS| files [Horbach1999]_.  The :ref:`sec-brs-renderer` can use this
information (|BRIR|\ s) to represent sources placed in a room. Stepping further,
|BRS| files enable the simulation of complex scenarios with loudspeaker arrays
driven by spatial audio reproduction techniques. With this method the complete
synthesised sound field of those reproduction methods could be investigated by
binaural synthesis without the need of setting up all the required loudspeakers.

.. note::

    These files can also be used in perceptual experiments with dynamic binaural
    synthesis (see for example [Wierstorf2014]_); here, our model could help to
    predict the experimental outcome.

.. vim: filetype=rst spell:
