.. _sec-afe-alternative-processing:

Allow alternative processing options
------------------------------------

.. contents::
    :depth: 1
    :local:

Sometimes, two different processors (implemented as two different classes) can
perform the same operation. The choice between such alternative processors is
made depending on a given user-provided (or default) request parameter value.
This is the case for example for the auditory filterbank, which can be performed
by either a Gammatone filterbank (``gammatoneProc.m``) or a dual-resonance non-
linear filterbank (``drnlProc.m``).

As can be seen when browsing ``parameterHelper``, the two processors should be
listed under the same request name, and one of the parameters (``'fb_type'`` in
the example above) should allow to switch between the two (or more)
alternatives. When the manager instantiates the processors and notices that a
given representation has alternative ways of being computed, it will call the
methods ``isSuitableForRequest`` of each alternatives to know which one should
be used.

Therefore, if your processor represents an alternative way of carrying out a
given operation, you should implement its ``isSuitableForRequest`` method, as
well as for its alternative, if it was not already existing.

This method takes as unique input an instance of a processor and will look into
its ``parameters`` property to determine if it is the suitable alternative. It
will return a boolean indicating if it is suitable (``true``) or not
(``false``). Note that this method is called internally, not from an actual
processor instance that would be used afterwards, but from a dummy, empty
processor generated using the user-provided request and parameters. 

See as examples ``gammatoneProc.isSuitableForRequest`` and
``drnlProc.isSuitableForRequest``.

.. vim: filetype=rst spell:
