.. _sec-experiments:

Experiment results
==================

In this part of the database we collect results from psychoacoustic experiments
run by the different labs involved in |twoears|.

Coloration
----------

Coloration of a point source in Wave Field Synthesis
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _fig-wfs-coloration:

.. figure:: img/wfs_coloration.png
    :align: center

    Mean rated coloration of a point source synthesized with |WFS| compared to a
    reference point source. The error bars are showing the confidence intervals.

This database entry contains stimuli and results from the experiments described
in [Wierstorf2014a]_. In the experiment different |WFS| systems synthesizing a
point source were rated in terms of their perceived coloration compared to real
point source. This was done for different audio material, namely pink noise,
speech, and music and different listener positions. The results are summarized
in :numref:`fig-wfs-coloration` and available in the following database files::

    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/coloration/human_label_center_positon_music.csv
    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/coloration/human_label_center_positon_noise.csv
    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/coloration/human_label_center_positon_speech.csv
    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/coloration/human_label_multiple_positions_music.csv
    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/coloration/human_label_multiple_positions_noise.csv
    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/coloration/human_label_multiple_positions_speech.csv

The corresponding stimuli are provided as |BRS| files that can be used together
with the |BinSim| and the corresponding the corresponding scene description file
:file:`wfs_coloration.xml` to reproduce the exact pink noise signals from the
test. The available |BRS| files are summarized in the ``*.flist`` files that
simply provide listings of them.

::

    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/coloration/wfs_coloration.xml
    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/coloration/center_positon.flist
    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/coloration/multiple_positions.flist

.. [Wierstorf2014a] Wierstorf, H., Hohnerlein, C., Spors, S., Raake, A. (2014), "Coloration in Wave Field Synthesis," 55th International AES Conference, Paper 5-3


.. _sec-experiments-sfs-localisation:

Localisation
------------

For the following localisation experiments we provide again |BRS| files together
with the rating results. The |BRS| files can be used together with the |BinSim|
on order to have the |TwoEarsModel| in the same situation as the listener
including its ability to turn the head.

Localisation of a point source
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _fig-localisation-osa:

.. figure:: img/localisation_real_vs_simulated.png
    :align: center

    The mean over all subjects together with the 95% confidence interval is
    shown. In grey, the individual subjects’ results are presented. In graph A,
    the signed error of the localization of the eleven speakers is shown. In
    graph B, the mean standard deviation for the localization task is depicted.
    The top row represents the condition with the real loudspeakers, the middle
    row the room |HRTF|\ s (|BRIR|\ s), and the bottom row the anechoic |HRTF|\ s.


In this experiment the localisation of a real point source realised by a
loudspeaker was compared to the localisation of a binaural simulation of the
same source using |HRTF|\ s or |BRIR|\ s. The results are published in
[Wierstorf2012]_. We do not provide the localisation results, but the head
movements of the listener performed during the experiment together with the
|BRS| files used for the binaural simulations of the point source.

::

    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/localisation/single_loudspeaker_anechoic.flist
    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/localisation/single_loudspeaker_room_calypso.flist
    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/localisation/human_label_head_movements_real_vs_simulated_loudspeaker/*

.. [Wierstorf2012] Wierstorf, H., Spors, S., Raake, A. (2012), "Perception and evaluation of sound fields," 59th Open Seminar on Acoustics, p. 263-68

Localisation of different source types in sound field synthesis
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _fig-localisation-sfs:

.. figure:: img/localisation_sfs.png
    :align: center

    Average localization results. The black symbols indicate loudspeakers, the
    grey ones the synthesized source. At every listening position, an arrow is
    pointing into the direction from which the listeners perceived the
    corresponding auditory event. The color of the arrow displays the absolute
    localization error, which is also summarized as an average beside the arrows
    for every row of positions. The average confidence interval for all
    localization results is 2.3°. Listening conditions which resulted in
    listeners saying that they perceived two sources are highlighted with a
    small 2 written below the position.

In this experiment listeners localised different synthesized sources using
different sound field synthesis methods and loudspeaker setups. The
experiment is described in [Wierstorf2014b]_. Here, we are providing the |BRS|
files that were used for binaural simulations of the different systems and
listener positions during the experiment and the corresponding rating results of
the listeners.

::

    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/localisation/human_label_localization_wfs_ps_circular.txt
    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/localisation/human_label_localization_wfs_ps_linear.txt
    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/localisation/wfs_ps_circular.flist
    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/localisation/wfs_ps_linear.flist
    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/localisation/human_label_localization_wfs_pw_circular.txt
    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/localisation/wfs_pw_circular.flist
    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/localisation/human_label_localization_wfs_fs_circular.txt
    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/localisation/wfs_fs_circular.flist
    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/localisation/human_label_localization_nfchoa_ps_circular.txt
    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/localisation/nfchoa_ps_circular.flist
    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/localisation/human_label_localization_nfchoa_pw_circular.txt
    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/localisation/nfchoa_pw_circular.flist

.. _sec-experiments-quality:

Quality ratings
---------------

Scene related sound quality
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _fig-quality-scene:

.. figure:: img/quality_scene.png
    :align: center

    The ten different conditions of the quality test.

We did a preference test where we asked for the preferred audio quality of the
presented stimuli, see [Raake2014]_ for details. The stimuli consisted always of
the same acoustic scene with three individual sources, which had different
degrees of degradations. We provide the ratings of the listeners and the
WAV-files of the stimuli in the following folders::

    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/scene_quality/stimuli/*
    experiments/sound_field_synthesis/scene_quality/results/*

.. [Raake2014] Raake, A., Wierstorf, H., Blauert J. (2014) "A case for TWO!EARS in audio quality assessment", Forum Acusticum

.. vim: filetype=rst spell:
