.. _sec-binary-onset-and-offset-maps:

Binary onset and offset maps (``transientMapProc.m``)
-----------------------------------------------------

.. contents::
    :depth: 1
    :local:

The information about sudden intensity changes, as represented by onsets or
offsets, can be combined in order to organise and group the acoustic input
according to individual auditory events. The required processing is similar for
both onsets and offsets, and is summarised by the term *transient detection*. To
apply this transient detection based on the onset strength or offset strength,
the user should use the request name ``’onset_map’`` or ``’offset_map’``,
respectively. Based on the transient strength which is derived from the
corresponding onset strength and offset strength processor (described in
:ref:`sec-onset-strength` and :ref:`sec-offset-strength`, a binary decision
about transient activity is formed, where only the most salient information is
retained. To achieve this, temporal and across-frequency constraints are imposed
for the transient information.  Motivated by the observation that two sounds are
perceived as separated auditory events when the difference in terms of their
onset time is in the range of 20 ms – 40 ms [Turgeon2002]_, transients are fused
if they appear within a pre-defined *time context*.  If two transients appear
within this time context, only the stronger one will be considered. This time
context can be adjusted by ``trm_fuseWithinSec``. Moreover, the minimum
across-frequency context can be controlled by the parameters ``trm_minSpread``.
To allow for this selection, individual transients which are connected across
multiple |TF| units are extracted using Matlab's image labelling tool
``bwlabel`` . The binary transient map will only retain those transients which
consists of at least ``trm_minSpread`` connected |TF| units. The salience of the
cue can be specified by the detection thresholds ``trm_minStrengthdB``.  Whereas
this thresholds control the required relative change, a global threshold
excludes transient activity if the corresponding rate-map level is below a
pre-defined threshold, as determined by ``trm_minValuedB``. A summary of all
parameters is given in :numref:`tab-onset-map`.

.. _tab-onset-map:

.. table:: List of parameters related to ``'onset_map'`` and ``'offset_map'``.

    +-----------------------+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
    | Parameter             | Default   | Description                                    |
    +=======================+===========+================================================+
    | ``trm_fuseWithinSec`` | ``30E-3`` | Time constant below which transients are fused |
    +-----------------------+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
    | ``trm_minSpread``     | ``5``     | Minimum number of connected |TF| units         |
    +-----------------------+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
    | ``trm_minStrengthdB`` | ``3``     | Minimum onset strength in dB                   |
    +-----------------------+-----------+------------------------------------------------+
    | ``trm_minValuedB``    | ``-80``   | Minimum rate-map level in dB                   |
    +-----------------------+-----------+------------------------------------------------+

To illustrate the benefit of selecting onset and offset information, a rate-map
representation is shown in :numref:`fig-onoffset` (left panel), where the
corresponding onsets and offsets detected by the ``transientMapProc``, through
two individual requests ``’onset_map’`` and ``’offset_map’``, and without
applying any temporal or across-frequency constraints are overlaid (respectively
in black and white). It can be seen that the onset and offset information is
quite noisy. When only retaining the most salient onsets and offsets by applying
temporal and across-frequency constraints (right panel), the remaining onsets
and offsets can be used as temporal markers, which clearly mark the beginning
and the end of individual auditory events.

.. _fig-onoffset:

.. figure:: ../img/OnOffset.png

   Detected onsets and offsets indicated by the black and white vertical
   bars. The left panels shows all onset and offset events, whereas the
   right panel applies temporal and across-frequency constraints in order
   to retain the most salient onset and offset events.

.. ...::: References :::...

.. [Turgeon2002]
    Turgeon, M., Bregman, A. S., and Ahad, P. A. (2002), “Rhythmic masking
    release: Contribution of cues for perceptual organization to the
    cross-spectral fusion of concurrent narrow-band noises,” Journal of the
    Acoustical Society of America 111(4), pp. 1819–1831.

.. vim: filetype=rst spell:
