.. _sec-onset-strength:

Onset strength (``onsetProc.m``)
--------------------------------

.. contents::
    :depth: 1
    :local:

According to [Bregman1990]_, common onsets and offsets across frequency are
important grouping cues that are utilised by the human auditory system to
organise and integrate sounds originating from the same source. The onset
processor is based on the rate-map representation, and therefore, the choice of
the rate-map parameters, as listed in :numref:`tab-ratemap`, will influence the
output of the onset processor. The temporal resolution is controlled by the
window size ``rm_wSizeSec`` and the step size ``rm_hSizeSec``, respectively. The
amount of temporal smoothing can be adjusted by the leaky integrator time
constant ``rm_decaySec``, which reduces the amount of temporal fluctuations in
the rate-map. Onset are detected by measuring the frame-based increase in energy
of the rate-map representation. This detection is performed based on the
logarithmically-scaled energy, as suggested by [Klapuri1999]_. It is possible to
limit the strength of individual onsets to an upper limit, which is by default
set to ``ons_maxOnsetdB = 30``. A list of all parameters is presented in
:numref:`tab-onset-strength`.

.. _tab-onset-strength:

.. table:: List of parameters related to ``'onset_strength'``

    +--------------------+---------+--------------------------------------+
    | Parameter          | Default | Description                          |
    +====================+=========+======================================+
    | ``ons_maxOnsetdB`` | ``30``  | Upper limit for onset strength in dB |
    +--------------------+---------+--------------------------------------+

The resulting onset strength expressed in `decibel`, which is a function of time
frame and frequency channel, is shown in :numref:`fig-onsetstrength`. The
two figures can be replicated by running the script ``DEMO_OnsetStrength.m``.
When considering speech as an input signal, it can be seen that onsets appear
simultaneously across a broad frequency range and typically mark the beginning
of an auditory event.

.. _fig-onsetstrength:

.. figure:: ../img/OnsetStrength.png

   Rate-map representation (left panel) of speech and the corresponding
   onset strength in decibel (right panel).

.. ...::: References :::...

.. [Klapuri1999]
    Klapuri, A. (1999), “Sound onset detection by applying psychoacoustic
    knowledge,” in Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on
    Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP), pp. 3089–3092.

.. vim: filetype=rst spell:
