.. _sec-brirs:

Reverberant measurements (|BRIR|\ s)
------------------------------------

.. contents::
    :depth: 1
    :local:

.. _sec-brir-twoears-adream:

Two!Ears, CNRS Toulouse, Adream-building
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Adream-building at the University Toulouse is a robot-lab space consisting
of a large hall that contains four small rooms without concrete windows, doors,
and ceilings. :numref:`fig-adream-building` provides a look from above on the
part where the measurements took place.

.. _fig-adream-building:

.. figure:: ../img/brir_twoears_adream_lab.jpg
    :align: center

    Lab space in the Adream building, look from above.


**Fix listener positions with head movements**

The measurement consists of two parts. The first part contains |BRIR|\ s with
head rotations from -78° to 78° in 2° steps, as from the listeners perspective.
Those measurements were done at four different listener positions and consisted
each time of four different loudspeakers. :numref:`fig-adream-pos-setup`
summarizes the setup with the actual loudspeaker and dummy head positions and
orientations.

.. _fig-adream-pos-setup:

.. figure:: ../img/brir_twoears_adream_pos_setup.png
    :align: center

    Setup of the measurements. For details see the :download:`PDF version
    <../pdf/brir_twoears_adream_pos_setup.pdf>` of this figure.

::

    impulse_responses/twoears_kemar_adream/TWOEARS_KEMAR_ADREAM_pos1.sofa
    impulse_responses/twoears_kemar_adream/TWOEARS_KEMAR_ADREAM_pos2.sofa
    impulse_responses/twoears_kemar_adream/TWOEARS_KEMAR_ADREAM_pos3.sofa
    impulse_responses/twoears_kemar_adream/TWOEARS_KEMAR_ADREAM_pos4.sofa

**Moving listener without head rotations**

The second part of the measurement consists of a trajectory of 20 listener
positions at which |BRIR|\ s were measured. This measurement includes only a
fixed head orientation of 0°, but the same 4 loudspeaker positions as the first
one.  :numref:`fig-adream-trajectory-setup` summarizes the setup with the actual
loudspeaker and dummy head positions and orientations.

.. _fig-adream-trajectory-setup:

.. figure:: ../img/brir_twoears_adream_trajectory_setup.png
    :align: center

    Setup of the measurements. For details see the :download:`PDF version
    <../pdf/brir_twoears_adream_trajectory_setup.pdf>` of this figure.

::

    impulse_responses/twoears_kemar_adream/TWOEARS_KEMAR_ADREAM_trajectory.sofa


.. _sec-brir-qu-auditorium3:

TU Berlin, Telefunken-building, room Auditorium 3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

::

    impulse_responses/qu_kemar_rooms/auditorium3/QU_KEMAR_Auditorium3_src1_xs+0.00_ys+3.97.sofa
    impulse_responses/qu_kemar_rooms/auditorium3/QU_KEMAR_Auditorium3_src2_xs+4.30_ys+3.42.sofa
    impulse_responses/qu_kemar_rooms/auditorium3/QU_KEMAR_Auditorium3_src3_xs+2.20_ys-1.94.sofa
    impulse_responses/qu_kemar_rooms/auditorium3/QU_KEMAR_Auditorium3_src4_xs+0.00_ys+1.50.sofa
    impulse_responses/qu_kemar_rooms/auditorium3/QU_KEMAR_Auditorium3_src5_xs-0.75_ys+1.30.sofa
    impulse_responses/qu_kemar_rooms/auditorium3/QU_KEMAR_Auditorium3_src6_xs+0.75_ys+1.30.sofa

.. figure:: ../img/brir_qu_auditorium3.jpg
    :align: center

The |BRIR|\ s are measured for three different sources and with a resolution of
1° and head movement from -90° to 90°.  The measurement was done in two parts,
which are shown in the following two figures. The measurement equipment was the
same as described in [Wierstorf2011]_.

.. figure:: ../img/brir_qu_auditorium3_setup1.png
    :align: center

    Room sketch of the setup. The green crosses are the positions of the three
    loudspeakers *src1*, *src2*, *src3*.

.. figure:: ../img/brir_qu_auditorium3_setup2.png
    :align: center

    Room sketch of the setup. The green crosses are the positions of the three
    loudspeakers that correspond to *src4*, *src5*, *src6* in the |BRIR| file
    names.

.. _sec-brir-qu-spirit:

TU Berlin, Telefunken-building, room Spirit
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

::

    impulse_responses/qu_kemar_rooms/spirit/QU_KEMAR_spirit_src1_30deg.sofa
    impulse_responses/qu_kemar_rooms/spirit/QU_KEMAR_spirit_src2_0deg.sofa
    impulse_responses/qu_kemar_rooms/spirit/QU_KEMAR_spirit_src3_-30deg.sofa

.. figure:: ../img/brir_qu_spirit.jpg
    :align: center

    Photo of the room *Spirit* at the Telefunken-building at TU Berlin.

The |BRIR|\ s are measured for three different sources and with a resolution of
1° and head movement from -90° to 90°.  Note, that the photo of the room was not
taken for the actual measurement setup.  The measurement equipment was the same
as described in [Wierstorf2011]_.

.. figure:: ../img/brir_qu_spirit_setup.png
    :align: center

    Room sketch of the setup. The green crosses are the positions of the three
    loudspeakers starting with *src1* on the left side.


.. vim: filetype=rst spell:
